Squarespace vs Word press 
Intro Most of the people throughout the world still think that the WordPress is the only way for initiating or developing a website. Most of them perceive that WordPress is only platform and they don’t have awareness about another alternatives. But now a days there is a great boom of new plate form in everywhere because of its splendiferous features and remarkable qualities and that is sqauarespace .But contrarily a one question that bound the people in its vicinity is that which plate form is better . So, for the sake of getting the answer we first know about the pros and cons of both of them and then we came to conclusion. 
Pros and Cons WordPress Pros First we enlighten the pros of WordPress and the pros of WordPress are that you can create your own blog without paying even a single penny and you can run it in your own pc. WordPress provides you a plenty of themes and templates that you require to set up your site for the sake of decoration and it is also free of cost but if you want something premium or high end then you need to pay a money. Most of the time, people who are using WordPress don’t have to pay a single penny because they get satisfied with the free features being offered. 
WordPress Cons One of the major disadvantages that can be noted while you are using WordPress is that although you host your site on a third party platform, yet the content that you post is not going to be your own. This functionality makes it onerous to control what happens to your content. In order to get control of whatever you post and own the rights to it, you have to require to purchase wordpress.org and that is generally applicable for people to make an actual financial investment into their site. 
Square Space Pros The root cause of using square space is that the plugins that Square Space offers are made by the company itself. This means that no matter what plugin you use, you can be fully assured that it is going to be optimized for your specific use, therefore, we have an option to use any plugin at all and guarantee that it would work perfectly. This also makes it easier for users to reduce the loading times and optimize your site for any search engines. Square Space is also known for its user friendly interface which makes web design so simple, eye catching and appealing to users. 
Square Space Cons The biggest disadvantages that people used to avoid this plate form is that, it never provides any service to its customer at free of cost. We must require to pay some fees for getting those functionalities. There are no free options here at all, you will have to pay a minimum of twelve dollars a month in order to get this service and host your website  
How Do They Compare? There are five basic areas where these two platforms can be compared.  
Usability When it comes to the usability so Square Space wins the game. While it not means that WordPress is  difficult to use , but you  need to realize that it is going to take your some amount of time before you are able to properly design the site that you are trying to aim for but in Square Space this is going to be easier, as the user interface has been designed to provide a number of drag and drop options for users that are not familiar with web design get a very lucid development environment 
Versatility WordPress has a slight edge in this regard. This platform is incredibly versatile, allowing you to make more pretty, adorable and fabulous site that you perceive in your mind. Square Space offers you a selection of templates, but this selection is still so diverse that you are going to end up making pretty much any kind of site that would be ideal for your situation. While WordPress is more versatile, though it is differ from the standardization of its template yet even slightly would require you to install a plugin, whereas Square Space offers you flexibility without having to do anything extra. Hence, in this category both platforms remain roughly equal and ismometrical. 
Aesthetics With WordPress you are going to get a lot of themes for free, but these themes are going to be pretty bland. There are thousands of premium themes offered, but the drawback here is that you must require some customization and then you get your desire site. Square Space requires a paid subscription to build a site, but after that you get several beautiful templates. So finally Square Space a narrow victory in this category. 
Approachability This is perhaps the only category that has a decisive winner, and that winner is Square Space. This platform is incredibly easy to use, but you have a variety of ways to contact someone if you need some help including live chat options and also a number so you can call. WordPress is not nearly as approachable, offering you a lot of prerecorded tutorials but not giving you the option to easily talk to somebody if you need immediate assistance. You are going to have to get this assistance from user forums instead. 
Cost WordPress definitely wins in this category because of its free basic template, but at the same time you need to realize that if you want premium templates Square Space might end up costing less in the long run. You don’t have to pay extra for premium themes with Square Space. Paying for premium themes with WordPress gives you far more options, but the several premium themes. Remember, there are too many options, so you are probably not going to need the vast majority of the premium themes WordPress offers. Still, WordPress nudges ahead in this category because of its free basic package. 
Final Result Square Space is great for beginners and intermediate designers who would especially love the customer support that would help them when they are a little bit confused, whereas WordPress is definitely a great option for experienced individuals that want complete customizability. Beginners that want to start a new blog might be enticed by WordPress offering a free basic template, but paying just twelve dollars a month for Square Space allows access to a much more premium level of design. 
Cost for Each Platform WordPress Once again, it does not cost anything to create a basic website using WordPress. However, upgrading is going to cost a lot of money, and since this platform is not as easy to use as SquareSpace you might end up having to hire someone to develop your site for you. 
Premium themes start at five dollars a month, but these themes are still not quite as high end as they seems to be good. You might have to end up paying upwards of twenty five dollars a month for the top tier themes. Additionally, plugins are going to be necessary for high end sites especially if you want to use different themes, and since you are going to be using quite a few of them with a business site the cost is going to go much higher. You also have to pay for a custom domain name, 
SquareSpace There are four basic packages that you can opt for. The personal package is the basic template although it does come with some gorgeous themes and is quite intuitive and easy to use. This package costs twelve dollars a month. The business package is higher end and costs eighteen dollars a month. There are options for online stores as well, with a basic store costing twenty six dollars a month and the advanced store, the most advanced package offered, available for forty dollars a month. 
If you pay for a year in advance, you can get a custom domain name with no extra charge, which can actually make this platform cheaper than WordPress if you are perceiving of spending money in the first place. You also get responsive design incorporated into each theme automatically rather than having to pay a web developer to do it for you. 
Conclusion The choice comes down to which of these services is more suitable to your needs. While WordPress is generally more versatile, Squarespace is easier to use. Squarespace costs less in the long run, but WordPress offers free basic service which would certainly a great for individual but not carry any means for group of people people. The fact is that both platforms are a match for one another, though WordPress does have an edge because it is better established. Whenever you develop a website first you categorized your needs and then you select which plate form is suitable for you . 
